notas:

One must determine which questions to ask, identify the appropriate data, and select effective visual encodings to map data values to graphical features such as position, size, shape, and color.


By making data more accessible and appealing, visual representations may also help engage more diverse audiences in exploration and analysis.
Challenge is to create effective and engaging visualizations that are appropriate to the data.


Nuanced judgments:

 One must determine
	which questions to ask,
	identify the appropriate data, and
	select effective visual encodings to map data values to graphical features such as position, size, shape, and color.
	Challenge is that for any given data set the number of visual encodings —and thus the space of possible visualization designs—is extremely large.

How well different encodings facilitate the comprehension of data types such as numbers, categories, and networks.

  example:
    graphical perception experiments find that spatial position (as in a scatter plot or bar chart)
    leads to the most accurate decoding of numerical data and
    is generally preferable to visual variables such as angle, one-dimensional length, two-dimensional area, three-dimensional volume, and color saturation.
    Thus, it should be no surprise that the most common data graphics, including bar charts, line charts, and scatter plots, use position encodings.
    Our understanding of graphical perception remains incomplete, however, and must appropriately be balanced with interaction design and aesthetics.

all visualizations share a common "DNA" :
    -a set of mappings between data properties and visual attributes such as position, size, shape, and color—
    and that customized species of visualization might always be constructed by varying these encodings.


INDEX CHARTS
      time-series data.
      relative changes are more important than raw values
      after normalization acquire more significance.

      INDEX CHARTS= interactive line chart that shows percentage changes for a
                    collection of time-series data -based on a selected index point?.

                      [http://hci.stanford.edu/jheer/files/zoo/ex/time/index-chart.html]

STACKED GRAPHS
      time-series data.
      time-series data seen in aggregate.
      stacking  area charts genberates a visual summarization of time-series.
      results:
        ilustrate aggregate patterns + drill-down in a subset of time-series
        ¿compare patterns?
      limitations:
        not support of negatives
        not significance for data that should not be summed
        problems with trends that lie atop other curves.


SMALL MULTIPLES
    plotted within the same axes, as in the INDEX CHARTS.
    showing each series in its own chart
    normalized
    series can be compared, trends, seasonal patterns in sectors.
    +can be constructed for just about any type of visualization: bar charts, pie charts, maps, etc.


HORIZONTAL GRAPHS
    increasing the data density of a time-series view while preserving resolution.
    Mirrors by
      .ploting negative values as positives
          preserves data resolution , reducing space,
          doubling data density.
      .ploting negative values as positives
          preserves data resolution , reducing space (a quarter), doubling data density.
          didviding into bands and layering creating a nested form.


STATISTICAL DISTRIBUTIONS
    How a set of numbers is distributed and
    thus help an analyst better understand
    the statistical properties of the data.
    Exploratory data analysis:
      objective:
                  insight on how data is distributed and
                  take decisions for modeling
      techniques:
                  histogram, which shows the prevalence of values grouped into bins,
                  and the box-and-whisker plot, which can convey statistical features such as
                      the mean, median, quartile boundaries,
                      or extreme outliers.
                  In addition, a number of other techniques exist for assessing a distribution and
                      examining interactions between multiple dimensions.

STEM-AND-LEAF PLOTS
    alternative to Histogram        
